hi I'm Alan frat and I've got an
interesting product to show you today
it's called low slope it's made by Henry
company it's a one and two ply
self-adhesive roofing system that can be
used on low or steep sloped roofs and
used for either new or reroofing
projects now this is a piece of one ply
low slope it consists of a reinforcing
mat coated with SBS rubberized asphalt
and ceramic granules the SBS rubber
provides cold-weather flexibility and
elongation properties which prevent
cracks that can cause leakage the
granules provide aesthetic appeal and
protect against UV exposure now you can
see how flexible this piece of low slope
is and it's going to stay that way in
temperatures down below freezing we're
gonna see here in a minute as well how
very easy it is to install low slope
whether or not you're a professional
roofing contractor or a do-it-yourself
at home all you have to do is peel and
stick it's that easy let's take a look
at how low slope works hey Pete how's it
going oh pretty good we're just about
ready to start putting down the low
slope here well I can see that the roof
surface has been cleaned cleared and
primed using aqua prime and I want to
tell us a little about that well aqua
prime is there to bind off any loose
dust and it leaves a tacky surface but
you can still walk on but helps the low
slope to salt stick mm-hmm it's also
environmentally friendly goes on with a
paint roller and dries in about thirty
minutes about thirty minutes and this
weather maybe even a little faster no
owner doesn't bother the people inside
speaking of Voter I noticed that there's
no hot tar asphalt or any special tools
it looks like you have to use here for
this project not really other than the
roller I got everything in the belt here
hammer nails knife to cut the low slope
well it's clean and it's quick and it's
easy and that makes a lot of sense when
you're up here in this kind of weather
working I can see that we've already
rolled out the low slope and cut it to
measure so where do we go from here
well what we do now is fold it back
we apply a rubberized sealant along the
metal drip edge so what I do is I take
the release paper kind of run with it
now what we do is we ease it into place
you don't want to pick it up and let it
stick to itself so we kind of just roll
it into place now we apply some pressure
just to make sure it's down or we could
take a roller like a countertop kind of
roller you always want to be careful
here working near the edge so that's our
first course and now we're ready to work
on the second one well hang on a second
now now you're getting ahead of me here
okay we still got to stick down the
other side this is one ply where it's
fully bonded to the duct okay so you see
we still offer these film on the other
side and then I run with it again and
then I roll it into place in the other
direction and then it's really the same
deal just walk it down to make sure that
it's gonna be tight but installing low
slope overlap each course three inches
on the sides about the width of your zip
strip here six inches on the ends and
stagger each end laughs at least 18
inches up the slope of the roof looks
like we're ready to start on our second
course here right people oh yeah ready
to go let's do it okay we just pulled it
back okay I put the rubberized mastic on
the metal
the zip strip is peeled back exposing
the rubberized adhesive this will bond
with the adhesive on the underside of
the second course now I peel off the
bottom half of the low slope roll and
now I can just set it in place you know
Pete that looks pretty quick and easy
and I noticed that when you peel back
that zip strip and put these two
together that's sticky too sticky
contact is one strong hold that's right
it's watertight right away tell me why I
cut this at a 45 degree angle
well when the next course goes over top
it just allows it to lay flatter and
prevent snow or ice from backing up
that's great you know low slope can be
used over plywood oriented strand board
really any Nayla Ballou asphalt surface
that's right and it's great for special
applications - well we've showed you the
one fly installation now we're going to
show you the two ply installation and
one of the great features of low slope
two-ply is that you don't even need to
use aqua Prime with it let's check out
this installation see how Pete's doing
over here how's it going Pete oh pretty
good
I just finished nailing the first course
the first full course what I did before
you came along Alan was I cut away the
granule portion and they created this
starter strip that you see here I've
nailed the drip edge over top and now
we're ready to go so what I do is I fold
the roll back apply the rubberized
sealant to the metal edge after I've
applied it to the whole edge I can peel
the release film
and I'm ready to stick it in place let
me give you a hand with that therapy
silent just kind of slide it along let
it kind of roll into place
put a little pressure on it to make sure
it's cut down now that's terrific and
each roll comes with easy to follow
instructions right in the box and with
Henry's low slope roofing system you get
a 10 year warranty on the 1 ply system
and a 15 year warranty on the 2 ply and
these are transferable guarantees now
that's incredible besides meeting local
building codes low slope is also
designed to meet UL Class C requirements
hey Doan did you tell them about the
colors well I believe there are five to
be exact now we use the weathered wood
here on our roof that's it right here
right and we've also got black gray
white and desert tan to choose from as
well I'm impressed
but then again Henry has been supplied
and top-notch roofing products for over
60 years now if I were you and I had a
big or a small roofing project to do I'd
ask my dealer for Henry's low sloped
roofing system we'll see you next time